The OLD MAN AND THE SON
They say everyone has a story; and this one is about a boy who sold masks. Once in some distant town, not so long ago, there lived a boy who made a living by roaming the streets and selling masks. He was a young boy about eleven or twelve years old, but his wisdom was way more than others of his age. He lived a simple life, he did not know what living a luxurious life must be like. He dressed in rags and toiled hard day and night, yet he tried finding joy in little things. He was an orphan and he had no brothers or sisters or someone whom he could call his own. He had a dream, an overwhelming desire which was to own a bicycle. He had seen children riding their cycles, talking with their friends and laughing as they passed by him, ignorant of his existence as if he did not exist. He wanted to ride the bicycle too; infact he wanted to own one. He had already started working on his plan. He started saving some money, sometimes he did some weird chores for rich men like washing their cars, sometimes he would even work overtime and sell other goods such as balloons and toys along with masks. He watched kids pleading their parents to buy them one of the commodities, and how their parents would smile and buy something for them. Then he travelled into a world where he had a family, and they were on a picnic, where he was in the place of the kid who had just bought the balloon, but then the very next moment, he would snap and come back into reality. Months passed and he was able to save a reasonable amount of money but still it was only half of the total amount he required. The boy looked serious and did some calculations with the help of his fingers. “Just a few more months”- he told himself. He then kept the money box back along with his other belongings on a old rugged mat he used to sleep on under the old bridge. He woke up the next day it was yet another normal day for him. He went to Mr.Kapoor’s house to clean his car. He placed a bucket of water beside the car, removed the dirty cloth that was resting on his shoulder and placed it on the edge of the bucket. He looked up towards the sky where the sun was shining bright, brushed off a few drops of sweat that were trailing down his neck and eyebrows and set to work. Suddenly his eyes fell on the bundle of notes that was kept in the open space beside the steering wheel of the car. He considered the situation, the money was more than he needed, he could easily take the money through the open window, buy a bicycle and he would still be able to save some cash. An argument started inside his mind, a lot of ‘what-if’s’ clustered up in his mind and then finally the clouds of doubt parted, he made up his mind. He took out the bundle of notes and went inside the house to return the money to Mr.Kapoor. He had heard people talking about the power of truth and how the people who followed the path of truth were always rewarded by God. Inside his heart was a little ray of hope that maybe Mr.Kapoor would reward him or at least offer him a job. But, Alas! Things often don’t turn out the way they seem to be; Mr.Kapoor saw the boy, heard about the incident and thanked the boy and praised him but that’s it, no prize, no job, nothing. The boy was a little disappointed but anyway he resumed his work and the day dragged on. Time flew by yet again and Whoosh! The boy had finally collected the entire amount he needed in order to buy the bicycle. He counted the money three times, yes, he had done it, yet he could not believe it. His happiness knew no bounds, he was on cloud nine. He placed the money in a dirty piece of cloth that he was able to find, tied it and secured it in his fists and went to the bicycle store. He was there in front of the bicycle store with money in his hands, his dream was about to be accomplished, but suddenly he noticed something, noise was coming out of the dustbin that was beside the store at the edge of a dark alley. His eyes adjusted to the darkness and he was able to make out a small moving figure. The boy was scared, but the next moment a shabby looking puppy jumped out of the dustbin. The boy was relieved and let out a breath that he had been holding in unknowingly. Many thoughts popped up inside his mind. He compared himself to the puppy. The puppy was dirty just like him; he lived in the dark alley and considered it his home. He was happy yet unaware of the surprises and wonders the world outside held. Now he was wondering, should he enter the shop, is this what he really longs for, is it right to invest so much of his time and hardwork into a mere worldly thing. He knew materialistic things cannot keep people happy for a long period of time, he would invest his money in something that would make him happy for a longer time and help in building a strong foundation for his future. Now he knew what he wanted to do. He ran and ran till he was breathless; he stopped in front of a school. With the money he had saved he can afford all the expenses of school and he would still work after school hours. Yes, he knew once he got education he can really do something great in his life, he wouldn’t be the same poor boy no one cared about. The dream of owning bicycle changed his life forever.